### ⚠️ **Disclaimer** 

This information is a **working version** and is provided solely for transparency and collaboration on GitHub.  
The **official and binding version** of the content is available on the website of the Swiss Federal Chancellery: [Guidelines for Open Source Software (OSS) – Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/digitale-transformation-ikt-lenkung/bundesarchitektur/open_source_software/hilfsmittel_oss.html).  

---

This checklist is part of *Em002-2 Instructions for Publishing Open
Source Software* and is intended for ICT professionals. It serves to
review the documentation and source code of a project. In doing so, it
helps ensure that the quality level of the documentation is sufficient
to publish an application as open source. It can also be used to verify
that the source code and all third-party components used by the project
do not pose any legal risks. These measures minimise security risks.
Information about this checklist can be found in *\[Em002-2\]* in
Section 4.

Furthermore, this checklist ensures that the project documentation
addresses both end users and technical professionals equally.

# Subject matter 

## Name and brief description of the software

Enter the name of the software.

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Contact person and review

Name the organisation, contact person from the specialist office and the
persons responsible (e.g. ISBO/DSBO) who have verified compliance with
the publication requirements.

|  |
|  |
|  |

# Checklist

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><em>Preliminary Assessment Checklist</em> has been completed and no problematic points were identified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The source code to be published has been analysed.</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Review how the existing code quality and guidelines have been implemented.</p></li>
<li><p>Ensure no sensitive (test) data is included, e.g. data based on real people or cases.</p></li>
<li><p>Current documentation (see [Em002-2] Annexes D.1. and D.2.)</p></li>
<li><p>Delete unnecessary files or outdated documents.</p></li>
<li><p>Check code for secrets/credentials.[1]</p></li>
<li><p>Conduct targeted security tests and subsequently establish a (public) bug bounty programme.[2]</p></li>
<li><p>Review all libraries used to ensure licences are present and corresponding lists (attributions) have been created.</p></li>
<li><p>Description of the deployment (CI/CD pipeline[3]) and possibly setup of a demo instance.</p></li>
</ul>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Licence selection</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Check for any dependencies on existing licences.</p></li>
<li><p>For third-party code, check terms of use for compatibility with intended licence and replace code if necessary.</p></li>
<li><p>Select appropriate licence using the 'Licence selection' guidelines.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Selected licence and justification</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The documentation is stored with the source code (see [Em002-2] Annex D.1.)</p>
<p>Justification/storage location</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The documentation addresses both end users and technical professionals.</p>
<p>List of the central documentation</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Detailed documentation of the source code (OSS specific)</p>
<p>Important standard documentation (README, LICENSE, CONTRIBUTING, etc.) is available.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The source code, including history, contains no sensitive, protected or confidential personal data. Or the history has been completely deleted.<br />
(see [Em002-2] Annex E.2.)</p>
<p>Explanation of review (if not filed as separate document)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td>It has been clarified with the supplier and all involved developers within the Federal Administration whether author information (names, email addresses) may be published.<br />
Alternatively, the source code including history has been cleaned/anonymised.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The libraries used by the project are compatible with the project's licence.</p>
<p>Explanation of review (if not filed as separate document)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td>The project uses a package manager to manage its dependencies.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td>The project declares its licence in the corresponding descriptor of the package manager.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>The source code contains a THIRD-PARTY-LICENSES.md file listing for each library used: the project name of the library, the homepage of the library, the SPDX identifier of the library's licence, and a link to the library's licence.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td>For applications, an 'About' dialogue is available that references the THIRD-PARTY-LICENSES.md file.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td>As part of the code review process, it is ensured that the THIRD-PARTY-LICENSES.md file is updated with every change to the libraries.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Concluding remarks

Comments and references to other relevant documents

|  |
|  |
|  |

**Filing of form**

Please file this form with the project documentation and submit it to
the appropriate office in your organisational unit.

**Licence of the checklist template: CC0 1.0 Universal**

By marking the work with a CC0 public domain dedication, the creator is
giving up their copyright and allowing reusers to distribute, remix,
adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, even for
commercial purposes.

1.  <https://www.ncsc.admin.ch/ncsc/en/home/aktuell/im-fokus/2022/git.html>

2.  <https://www.ncsc.admin.ch/ncsc/en/home/infos-fuer/infos-it-spezialisten/themen/bug-bounty-programme.html>

3.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CI/CD
