### ⚠️ **Disclaimer** 

This information is a **working version** and is provided solely for transparency and collaboration on GitHub.  
The **official and binding version** of the content is available on the website of the Swiss Federal Chancellery: [Guidelines for Open Source Software (OSS) – Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/digitale-transformation-ikt-lenkung/bundesarchitektur/open_source_software/hilfsmittel_oss.html).  

---

This checklist is part of *Em002-2 Instructions for Publishing Open*
Source Software*.* It should be completed at the start of a project or
when clarifying whether software does not need to be published.

The description of the checklist can be found in *\[Em002-2\]* in
Section 3.

This checklist can also be used to define whether development will be as
open development directly on a public repository.

For legacy code (developed before EMOTA came into force on 1.1.2024),
additional questions are provided.

Important: If software is not to be released as OSS, this checklist also
serves as justification for such a decision.

# Subject matter

## Name and brief description of the software

Enter the name of the software.  
This name should be identical in all subsequent OSS checklists to ensure
correct allocation.

|  |
|  |
|  |

Briefly describe the goal and purpose of the software.  
If a URL link exists, please also provide this.

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Contact person and review

Name the federal authority (organisational unit), contact person and the
persons responsible for the legal review (e.g. ISBO/DSBO) who have
verified compliance with the publication requirements.

|  |
|  |
|  |

# Checklist

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>New software or legacy</strong></p>
<p>Is this new software or an existing project (see [Em002-2] Section 3.1).</p>
<p>☐ Legacy (further development)</p>
<p>☐ New software</p>
<p>☐ Legacy[1] or further development of legacy software</p>
<p>☐ Existing third-party project (→ Complete <em>OSS Community Checklist</em>)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>Life cycle</strong></p>
<p>In what stage of the life cycle is the software currently (see [Em002-2] Section 3.1).[2]</p>
<p>☐ Planned</p>
<p>☐ In development</p>
<p>☐ In operation</p>
<p>☐ End of life</p>
<p>☐ Archive</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>Users</strong></p>
<p>Are there potential or known individuals or organisations using the software? Are there potential customers for the software? Possible and known users can be named in the textbox.</p>
<p>☐ None conceivable</p>
<p>☐ Potential users</p>
<p>☐ Known users</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>In-house development, joint development or third-party project</strong></p>
<p>What is the basic structure? Is this an in-house development by the Confederation, a collaboration, or is it based on a third-party project?<br />
The structure of co-development and third-party project can be listed in the textbox (see [Em002-2] Section 3.1).</p>
<p>☐ In-house development</p>
<p>☐ Joint development (<em>Em002-4.1 OSS Community Checklist</em> to be completed)</p>
<p>☐ Third-party project (<em>Em002-4.1 OSS Community Checklist</em> to be completed)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>Who is publishing the software?</strong></p>
<p>☐ Federal authority</p>
<p>☐ Service provider</p>
<p>☐ Supplier</p>
<p>☐ Third party</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>Depth of release</strong></p>
<p>Outcome from <em>Em002-4.1 OSS Community Checklist</em>.</p>
<p>☐ Minimal publication</p>
<p>☐ Issue tracking: Errors can be reported and will be handled.</p>
<p>☐ Community</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>There is no violation of third-party rights (e.g. patent rights, intellectual property, trademark or design protection).</p>
<p>Reviews according to [Em002-2] Section 3.2 have been carried out. The ownership of the software lies with the Confederation, or it is being developed by employees of the Confederation (internal or external). Justification must be given, especially if this is not the case. It must also be explained why the rights do not lie with the Confederation and what checks were made regarding proprietary parts, as well as what was done regarding possible obstacles (e.g. patent protection), or how far investigations went.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>There are no security-relevant reasons preventing publication.</p>
<p>Reviews according to [Em002-2] Section 3.3 have been carried out.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>There is agreement in principle and feasibility exists for publishing the application as open source.</p>
<p>Reference to minutes or decision-making body with date.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Concluding remarks

Comments and references to other relevant documents.

If a Contributor Licence Agreement (CLA) is used, this should be noted
here (see *Em002-3 OSS Licensing Guidelines* Section 7.8).

|  |
|  |
|  |

**Filing of form**

Please file this form with the project documentation and submit it to
the appropriate office in your organisational unit.

**Licence of the checklist template: CC0 1.0 Universal**

By marking the work with a CC0 public domain dedication, the creator is
giving up their copyright and allowing reusers to distribute, remix,
adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, even for
commercial purposes.

1.  Not required by EMOTA, but it is also possible to release existing
    software.

2.  Replacement of existing software should be noted here as 'planned'.
