### ⚠️ **Disclaimer** 

This information is a **working version** and is provided solely for transparency and collaboration on GitHub.  
The **official and binding version** of the content is available on the website of the Swiss Federal Chancellery: [Guidelines for Open Source Software (OSS) – Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/digitale-transformation-ikt-lenkung/bundesarchitektur/open_source_software/hilfsmittel_oss.html).  

---

This checklist is part of *Em002-2 Instructions for Publishing Open
Source Software* and *Em002-4 OSS Community Guidelines*.  
It must be filled in at the start of a project or at the start of the
clarifications for release and subsequently completed.  
For OSS support models, please refer to Section 8 of *Em002-1 Practical
Guidelines for Open Source Software in the Federal Administration*.

# Subject matter 

## Name and brief description of the software

Enter the name of the software.

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Contact person and authorisation

Name the contact person of the specialist department and the persons
responsible who have authorised publication of the software.

|  |
|  |
|  |

# Checklist

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Type of community</p>
<p>The community may already exist, which greatly simplifies the task.</p>
<p>☐ Exists (third party may have the lead)</p>
<p>☐ The Confederation has the lead</p>
<p>☐ Equal partners</p>
<p>☐ Other</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Library or entire software?</p>
<p>There is no community concept for libraries. An add-on can only be used together with a commercial product.</p>
<p>☐ Entire software</p>
<p>☐ Library</p>
<p>☐ Add-on</p>
<p>☐ Other</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>What type of community is planned?</p>
<p>The choice of community type should be justified in two to three sentences.</p>
<p>☐ None, only publication (as-is) (minimum release)</p>
<p>☐ Releases/issue tracker (minimum support, allow third-party support if necessary)</p>
<p>☐ Community</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Are there potential or actual co-users of the software?</p>
<p>Are there potential customers for the software? Possible and known users can be listed in the text (see [Em002-2] Section 3.1.1).</p>
<p>☐ None conceivable</p>
<p>☐ Potential users (are conceivable)</p>
<p>☐ Known users (have already contacted us)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Stakeholders (already defined members of the community)</p>
<p>List of relevant jobs/companies.<br />
This gives an idea of how relevant the software is for third parties.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Who takes charge of product management?</p>
<p>Product management is primarily responsible for further development of the product. Especially if this role is assumed by third parties, the companies/organisations should be named if possible.</p>
<p>☐ Federal office</p>
<p>☐ Service provider</p>
<p>☐ Supplier(s) / third parties</p>
<p>☐ Joint organisation</p>
<p>☐ Open</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Integration of suppliers</p>
<p>How are the suppliers involved?</p>
<p>☐ Contractor</p>
<p>☐ Partner</p>
<p>☐ Responsible body</p>
<p>☐ Other</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Type of organisation</p>
<p>What organisational form does the community take? This should be explained in detail, especially if ‘Other’ is selected. A new association should only be founded if there is a very good reason for doing so (given the resources needed).</p>
<p>☐ Public sector only</p>
<p>☐ Simple partnership</p>
<p>☐ New or existing association</p>
<p>☐ Other (e.g. a foundation, existing or not)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Cost distribution</p>
<p>This should be set out in the community concept. Section 5.5 of <em>Em002-4 OSS Community Guidelines</em> provides information on this [Em002-4].</p>
<p>The cost distribution considerations should be briefly stated.</p>
<p>☐ The Confederation pays</p>
<p>☐ Each party covers its own costs</p>
<p>☐ Originator pays principle</p>
<p>☐ The Confederation does not assume any costs from the community</p>
<p>☐ Cost sharing (e.g. by way of an association)</p>
<p>☐ Release, partially assumed by third parties (e.g. because software was created before 1 January 2024 and they absolutely want to use the software)</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>If additional services are offered in accordance with Art. 9 paras 5 and 6 EMOTA, is this set out in the community concept?</p>
<p>The community concept contains the relevant information.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Has the community concept been created?</p>
<p>The community concept has been created (link).</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Are the necessary contracts in place?</p>
<p>CLA drawn up, association or similar documents drawn up.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Concluding remarks

Comments and references to other relevant documents

|  |
|  |
|  |

**Filing of form**

Please file this form with the project documentation and submit it to
the relevant office in your organisational unit.

**Licence of the checklist template: CC0 1.0 Universal**

By marking the work with a CC0 public domain dedication, the creator is
giving up their copyright and allowing reusers to distribute, remix,
adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, even for
commercial purposes.
