### ⚠️ **Disclaimer** 

This information is a **working version** and is provided solely for transparency and collaboration on GitHub.  
The **official and binding version** of the content is available on the website of the Swiss Federal Chancellery: [Guidelines for Open Source Software (OSS) – Federal Chancellery](https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/de/home/digitale-transformation-ikt-lenkung/bundesarchitektur/open_source_software/hilfsmittel_oss.html).  

---

This checklist is part of *Em002-2 Instructions for Publishing Open
Source Software* \[Em002-2\]. It concludes the instructions and results
in release of the software under an open source licence. The description
of the checklist can be found in \[Em002-2\] Annex D.

# Subject matter

## Name and brief description of the software

Enter the name of the software.

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Contact person and review

Name the organisation, contact person from the specialist office and the
persons responsible (e.g. ISBO/DSBO) who have verified compliance with
the publication requirements.

|  |
|  |
|  |

## Repository names and developer permissions

State the planned repository names of the software to be published and
the chosen publication platform (currently this is usually GitHub).

|  |
|  |
|  |

Specify who (GitHub username, name, position, function) is working on
the repository. If this is in a repository of an office, it must be
stated who authorised the person. That person is then also responsible
for the solution if the first person leaves the organisation or changes
their position. It should also be specified whether individuals are
acting as private persons or as part of the office. Name the GitHub user
account that should be assigned the role of Repository Administrator.
There can be several administrators.

|  |
|  |
|  |

# Checklist

The checklist is to be completed before actual publication.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td>'Preliminary Assessment Checklist' has been completed and no problematic points were identified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td>'Analysis and Preparation Checklist' has been completed and no problematic points were identified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Licence has been selected.</p>
<p>Selected licence and justification</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>ISDS concept has been created.</p>
<p>The relevant reviews have been carried out. Refer to documents/reviews. It is defined how security-relevant reports by third parties will be handled. If applicable, the software will be subject to a bug bounty programme. There are also OSS checks in the repositories, the relevant configuration and the person responsible is named.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Community/support is regulated (via the <em>OSS Community Checklist</em>)</p>
<p>The checklist is attached. The key points are included here.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Level and method of support have been clarified.</p>
<p>Indication of how this has been regulated.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Transferred responsibilities</p>
<p>Indication of whether responsibility for release was transferred to a third party (supplier, support, association) during procurement or subsequently.</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>☐</td>
<td><p>Green light for open sourcing from the application and budget managers</p>
<p>Names and date</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Concluding remarks

Comments and references to other relevant documents

|  |
|  |
|  |

**Filing of form**

Please file this form with the project documentation and submit it to
the relevant office in your organisational unit.

**Licence of the checklist template: CC0 1.0 Universal**

By marking the work with a CC0 public domain dedication, the creator is
giving up their copyright and allowing reusers to distribute, remix,
adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, even for
commercial purposes.
